howto/code-review.md, before:

# 1 Million Women To Tech (1MWTT) Code Review #HOWTO

This document is to help you Give and Receive code reviews. Mentors are the ones giving the code reviews, while Students receive them.

It is important for reviewers to be kind, and for receivers to be, well, receptive to suggestions.

# STEP 1

Read the [best practices here](https://smartbear.com/learn/code-review/best-practices-for-peer-code-review/)

# STEP 2

While reading the template below, please watch the example here where Ilona does a code review for Rocio on Week 01 homework:
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7VSaq0dPPSw
(you may wish to watch at 2x speed)

# STEP 3

Study the template

### Praise

Always start with positive feedback. e.g. Great job. You have come this far. Well done. Add something that you noticed the student did really well.

### Grading rubric

Generic Rubric | Needs improvement | Good | Outstanding 
 :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: 
**Effort** |||
**Solution** |||
`Code formatting`|||
`Architecture`|||
`Coding best practices`|||
`Non Functional requirements`|||
`OOAD or SOLID principles (if applicable)`|||

### Comments
- BRAVOs
- Suggestions
- Grade
- Level

### Ideas for optional discussion points for the BRAVOs and suggestions

#### Code formatting
While going through the code, check the code formatting to improve readability and ensure that there are no blockers:
- Enforce language style guide automatically: prettify, lint.
- Use alignments (left margin), proper white space. Also ensure that code block starting point and ending point are easily identifiable.
- Ensure that proper naming and coding conventions (Pascal, camelCase etc.) have been followed. 
- Code should fit in the standard 14 inch laptop screen.  There shouldn’t be a need to scroll horizontally to view the code. In a 21 inch monitor, other windows (toolbox, properties etc.) can be opened while modifying code, so always write code keeping in view a 14 inch monitor.
- Remove the commented code as this is always a blocker, while going through the code. Commented code can be obtained from Source Control (like Git), if required.

#### Architecture
- The code should follow the defined architecture.
- Separation of Concerns followed
- Split into multiple layers and tiers as per requirements (Presentation, Business and Data layers).
- Split into respective files (HTML, JavaScript and CSS).
- Code is in sync with existing code patterns/technologies.
- Design patterns: Use appropriate design pattern (if it helps), after completely understanding the problem and context.

#### Coding best practices

- No hard coding, use constants/configuration values.
- Group similar values under an enumeration (enum).
- Comments – Do not write comments for what you are doing, instead write comments on why you are doing. Specify about any hacks, workaround and temporary fixes. Additionally, mention pending tasks in your to-do comments, which can be tracked easily.
- Avoid multiple if/else blocks.
- Use framework features, wherever possible instead of writing custom code.
- **Use early exits**
- **Return booleans if possible**

#### Non Functional Requirements

- Maintainability
  - Readability
  - Testability
  - Debuggability
  - Configurability
- Reusability
  - **DRY**
  - Components
  - Generic
  - Write "shy" code
- Reliability
  - Exception handling
  - Cleanup
Extensibility
Security
Performance
Scalability
Usability
OOAD
- SRS
- Open Closed Principle
- Liskov
- Interface segregation
- Dependency injection

### End with praise

Like in the openining you want to give encouragment and appreciation. e.g. You have come so far, well done! Great work! BRAVO. Impressive. Great sense of humour! ;)


## older code review example

https://github.com/CristyTarantino/toolkitten/projects/1
https://github.com/CristyTarantino/toolkitten/pull/3


# Step 4

Make sure you are familiar with the week's homework assignments. E.g. for Week 01 https://github.com/1millionwomentotech/soc-cert-week01/blob/master/README.md (private repo, you will need to request access to the GitHub classroom to see it)

Beginners should only use tools and methods that they learned during the lecture. They should NOT be shown the shiniest, best, newest, most elegant libraries or the most elegant solution IF they have not heard about them before, because the goal of the exercise is to drill that which they learned. Drilling is what's missing from many online tutorials, so it is your responsibility as a Mentor to make the correct judgement call about how much (or how little) improvement to suggest.

Students are also allowed and in fact encouraged to work on their own problems and projects, so you may be asked to give genuine code reviews on unseen problems.

### Resources

checklist
- https://www.evoketechnologies.com/blog/code-review-checklist-perform-effective-code-reviews/

tips
- https://www.evoketechnologies.com/blog/simple-effective-code-review-tips/

specific examples e.g. DRY
- https://medium.com/@same7mabrouk/the-checklist-of-my-code-review-18cc6f6fb5b3
(fun picture, includes the GitHub illustration of PR flow: 
- https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/)

good examples
- https://medium.com/@andreigridnev/examples-of-code-review-checklists-and-guides-2dfed082a86d

fun cartoons
- xkcd: Code Quality https://xkcd.com/1513/
- xkcd: Code Quality 2 https://xkcd.com/1695/
- xkcd: Code Quality 3 https://m.xkcd.com/1833/

best practices
- https://medium.com/palantir/code-review-best-practices-19e02780015f 
- https://smartbear.com/learn/code-review/best-practices-for-peer-code-review/
- https://smartbear.com/resources/ebooks/the-state-of-code-review-2018/
- https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/rational/library/11-proven-practices-for-peer-review/index.html
- https://gist.github.com/kashifrazzaqui/44b868a59e99c2da7b14

report
- https://smartbear.com/SmartBear/media/ebooks/The-2018-State-Of-Code-Review-by-SmartBear.pdf

# Why code review?

1. Better than grades

2. Real life

3. Best way to learn

Commit message:

add become a mentor #HOWTO update code-review.md and hackathon.md

howto/code-review.md, after:

# 1 Million Women To Tech (1MWTT) Code Review #HOWTO

**How to be a successful Mentor**

This document is to help you Give and Receive code reviews. Mentors are the ones giving the code reviews, while Students receive them.

It is important for reviewers to be kind, and for receivers to be, well, receptive to suggestions.

# STEP 1

Read the [best practices here](https://smartbear.com/learn/code-review/best-practices-for-peer-code-review/)

# STEP 2

While reading the template below, please watch the example here where Ilona does a code review for Rocio on Week 01 homework:
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7VSaq0dPPSw
(you may wish to watch at 2x speed)

# STEP 3

Study the template below.

1. Start with an encouraging sentence. Remember the struggle was probably real for many to get to the point of submitting a project, so be positive and encourage them to improve their work, if necessary.
 
Example: You have done great so far! Really nice work. Just a couple of suggestions for topic xyz, then we are good to go 🙌🏻

2. Positive-to-negative ratio: Negative isn’t the right word but let’s be real, nobody likes to have made mistakes. So we suggest a ratio of 2-1 of pointing out the great things about their code (code structure, functions, styling etc.) to suggesting improvements on other areas.
Remember: the aim is to have a student read this and feel empowered and supported to do better, not to feel deflated about their mistakes!

Suggesting improvements;
- Must haves; check whether the code runs correctly, gives correct output for edge cases, etc
- Nice to haves; Give feedback on readability, efficiency, extendibility, etc
- For detailed technical checklist see below.

3. Be precise and add a screenshot: Most students will be giving their absolute best and will only get so far with their current knowledge. So be precise about your feedback. Each note, whether positive or a suggestion for improvement, should have a screenshot attached

4. Additional resources: Include additional resources to external websites or to course material, where you think the student could get valuable information to improve

### Praise

Always start with positive feedback. e.g. Great job. You have come this far. Well done. Add something that you noticed the student did really well.

### Grading rubric

Generic Rubric | Needs improvement | Good | Outstanding 
 :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: 
**Effort** |||
**Solution** |||
`Code formatting`|||
`Architecture`|||
`Coding best practices`|||
`Non Functional requirements`|||
`OOAD or SOLID principles (if applicable)`|||

### Comments
- BRAVOs
- Suggestions
- Grade
- Level

### Ideas for optional discussion points for the BRAVOs and suggestions

#### Code formatting
While going through the code, check the code formatting to improve readability and ensure that there are no blockers:
- Enforce language style guide automatically: prettify, lint.
- Use alignments (left margin), proper white space. Also ensure that code block starting point and ending point are easily identifiable.
- Ensure that proper naming and coding conventions (Pascal, camelCase etc.) have been followed. 
- Code should fit in the standard 14 inch laptop screen.  There shouldn’t be a need to scroll horizontally to view the code. In a 21 inch monitor, other windows (toolbox, properties etc.) can be opened while modifying code, so always write code keeping in view a 14 inch monitor.
- Remove the commented code as this is always a blocker, while going through the code. Commented code can be obtained from Source Control (like Git), if required.

#### Architecture
- The code should follow the defined architecture.
- Separation of Concerns followed
- Split into multiple layers and tiers as per requirements (Presentation, Business and Data layers).
- Split into respective files (HTML, JavaScript and CSS).
- Code is in sync with existing code patterns/technologies.
- Design patterns: Use appropriate design pattern (if it helps), after completely understanding the problem and context.

#### Coding best practices

- No hard coding, use constants/configuration values.
- Group similar values under an enumeration (enum).
- Comments – Do not write comments for what you are doing, instead write comments on why you are doing. Specify about any hacks, workaround and temporary fixes. Additionally, mention pending tasks in your to-do comments, which can be tracked easily.
- Avoid multiple if/else blocks.
- Use framework features, wherever possible instead of writing custom code.
- **Use early exits**
- **Return booleans if possible**

#### Non Functional Requirements

- Maintainability
  - Readability
  - Testability
  - Debuggability
  - Configurability
- Reusability
  - **DRY**
  - Components
  - Generic
  - Write "shy" code
- Reliability
  - Exception handling
  - Cleanup
Extensibility
Security
Performance
Scalability
Usability
OOAD
- SRS
- Open Closed Principle
- Liskov
- Interface segregation
- Dependency injection

### End with praise

Like in the openining you want to give encouragment and appreciation. e.g. You have come so far, well done! Great work! BRAVO. Impressive. Great sense of humour! ;)


## older code review example

https://github.com/CristyTarantino/toolkitten/projects/1
https://github.com/CristyTarantino/toolkitten/pull/3


# Step 4

Make sure you are familiar with the week's homework assignments. E.g. for Week 01 https://github.com/1millionwomentotech/soc-cert-week01/blob/master/README.md (private repo, you will need to request access to the GitHub classroom to see it)

Beginners should only use tools and methods that they learned during the lecture. They should NOT be shown the shiniest, best, newest, most elegant libraries or the most elegant solution IF they have not heard about them before, because the goal of the exercise is to drill that which they learned. Drilling is what's missing from many online tutorials, so it is your responsibility as a Mentor to make the correct judgement call about how much (or how little) improvement to suggest.

Students are also allowed and in fact encouraged to work on their own problems and projects, so you may be asked to give genuine code reviews on unseen problems.

### Resources

checklist
- https://www.evoketechnologies.com/blog/code-review-checklist-perform-effective-code-reviews/

tips
- https://www.evoketechnologies.com/blog/simple-effective-code-review-tips/

specific examples e.g. DRY
- https://medium.com/@same7mabrouk/the-checklist-of-my-code-review-18cc6f6fb5b3
(fun picture, includes the GitHub illustration of PR flow: 
- https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/)

good examples
- https://medium.com/@andreigridnev/examples-of-code-review-checklists-and-guides-2dfed082a86d

fun cartoons
- xkcd: Code Quality https://xkcd.com/1513/
- xkcd: Code Quality 2 https://xkcd.com/1695/
- xkcd: Code Quality 3 https://m.xkcd.com/1833/

best practices
- https://medium.com/palantir/code-review-best-practices-19e02780015f 
- https://smartbear.com/learn/code-review/best-practices-for-peer-code-review/
- https://smartbear.com/resources/ebooks/the-state-of-code-review-2018/
- https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/rational/library/11-proven-practices-for-peer-review/index.html
- https://gist.github.com/kashifrazzaqui/44b868a59e99c2da7b14

report
- https://smartbear.com/SmartBear/media/ebooks/The-2018-State-Of-Code-Review-by-SmartBear.pdf

# Why code review?

1. Better than grades

2. Real life

3. Best way to learn
