howto/hackathon.md, before:

# 1 Million Women To Tech (1MWTT)

## Hackathon #HOWTO

TABLE OF CONTENTS
===========
<!--ts-->
   * [1 Million Women To Tech (1MWTT)](#1-million-women-to-tech-1mwtt)
      * [Hackathon #HOWTO](#hackathon-howto)
   * [TABLE OF CONTENTS](#table-of-contents)
      * [What is a hackathon?](#what-is-a-hackathon)
      * [Positive energy](#positive-energy)
      * [Strengthen the community that the hackathon is for](#strengthen-the-community-that-the-hackathon-is-for)
      * [Welcoming newcomers](#welcoming-newcomers)
      * [Hacking](#hacking)
      * [Cultivating Good Projects](#cultivating-good-projects)
      * [Open Ended Hackathons](#open-ended-hackathons)
      * [Themed Hackathons](#themed-hackathons)
      * [Placing Newcomers into New Projects](#placing-newcomers-into-new-projects)
      * [Other Tips](#other-tips)
      * [Training](#training)
      * [Sponsorship](#sponsorship)
      * [Code of conduct](#code-of-conduct)
      * [Happy hours](#happy-hours)
      * [Communication Channels](#communication-channels)
      * [Project Pitches](#project-pitches)
      * [During the day](#during-the-day)
      * [Wrap-up](#wrap-up)
      * [Schedule](#schedule)

<!-- Added by: ilonabudapesti, at:  -->

<!--te-->

## What is a hackathon?

We define "hackathon" very broadly:

Hacking is creative problem solving. (It does not have to involve technology.)
A hackathon is any event of any duration where people come together to solve problems. Most hackathons I’ve run also have a parallel track for workshops.
Participants typically form groups of about 2-6 individuals, take out their laptops (if the event is technology themed), and dive into problems. Training workshops are a great parallel track especially for newcomers but also for all participants.

## Positive energy

Hackathons have gotten a bad rap because of some that have an unhealthy, competitive structure, and for setting unrealistic expectations. Don’t participate in hackathon with that mindset and you’ll be on the right track. Here are the goals to keep in mind:

## Strengthen the community that the hackathon is for

Be welcoming to newcomers to the community.
Provide an opportunity for participants to learn something new.
Provide a space and a time for participants to make headway on problems they are interested in.
Don’t expect to have actually solved a problem by the end of the hackathon. Real life problems are hard! Think of the hackathon as a pit-stop on a long journey to solve problems or as a training session to prepare participants for solving problems.

Since you’re not going to solve a problem, don’t put unrealistic (and unhealthy) pressure on your participants. Don’t stay up all night, don’t pump yourself with caffeine, and don’t make winners and losers. Just don’t. Participants should come energized and be greeted with positive energy.

## Welcoming newcomers

The hardest thing about running a successful hackathon is being welcoming to newcomers and helping them get involved in an activity.

Newcomers often suffer from “imposter syndrome”, the feeling that they don’t belong because they don’t have skills, aren’t smart enough, etc. They’re wrong, of course, but until they feel like they belong they will not be able to have a fulfilling experience. It is the hackathon organizers', the mentors' and the more experienced participants' job to help them realize they have something to contribute.

First time hackathon participants are often overwhelmed when it comes time to finding a project to work on. They may not yet know how to relate their own skills to the sorts of projects being worked on. Knowing how to be useful is a skill in itself. You will need to guide them to a project and through a process for them to realize how they can contribute. If you have too many lost participants and not enough help in getting them started on a project, they will leave — let's try to avoid that.

Mentors must make sure that everyone has something to do. One way to do this is to have a list of project leaders ahead of time: people you know are coming with particular projects that you can guide other participants to. And you can work to make sure your hacking projects are ready to accept newcomers. We also hold non-project activities — courses, described below — which are easier for newcomers to join.

[VOLUNTEER NEEDED] We could also consider pairing newcomers with mentors.

[VOLUNTEER NEEDED] We are planning to hold a pre-event session just for newcomers, as Wikimedia recently did.

## Hacking

The hacking track is for participants to dive into problems. Often groups of 2-6 individuals form around a project, such as building a new data visualization, writing a document, or collaboratively investigating a problem. Participants take out their laptops, connect to power and wifi, join on a video conference and get working.

Hacking begins with project introductions. Participants that bring projects to the event have an opportunity to briefly (1 minute max) explain what they are working on at the very start of the event so that other participants can join that project. At the end of the event, a wrap-up session gives each project a chance to demonstrate some accomplishments.

## Cultivating Good Projects

Not every project makes a good hackathon project. It is extremely important to maximize the following qualities in the projects at your event:

- [ ] Clearly articulated. Projects should have a clear question or problem they are trying to solve plus a reasonably specific proposed solution.
- [ ] Attainable. Most projects will accomplish about 25% of what they think they can accomplish in the limited time they have. Manage each project’s goals so participants are able to feel accomplished at the end of the session, not interrupted.
- [ ] Easy to onboard newcomers. Projects should have ready-to-go tasks for newcomers with a variety of skills and at a variety of skill levels. For coding projects, these tasks can’t require an intimate understanding of the code base, and make sure the build environment can be spun up in less than 20 minutes. Make a list of tasks or create github issues ahead of time!
- [ ] Led by a stakeholder. A stakeholder (or “subject matter expert”) guides a project to real-world relevance. Projects without a stakeholder can “solve” a problem that doesn’t exist. Ideally the leader (or one of the leaders) is a stakeholder, or a good proxy for a stakeholder. I strongly recommend reviewing Laurenellen McCann’s Build With, Not For series on involving stakeholders in all civic tech work. Additionally, it is never enough for a project leader to just be an ideas person. Beware when the leader is a stakeholder but can’t foresee how he or she might be implementing along with the rest of the team.
- [ ] Organized. For projects with four or more members, especially newcomers, the project leader’s role should be to coordinate, ensuring each team member has something to work on and helping to welcome new team members.

Treat these bullets like a checklist. Projects that think about themselves in terms of these qualities tend to be happier and more productive.

If you know what projects are going to be worked on at the event, the earlier you can get those projects thinking about this the better. Meet with project leads and talk about these components of their project ahead of time if possible. As a Mentor, having this information about projects can also help you route participants to projects they may want to work on.

## Open Ended Hackathons

Each hackathon will have an open ended category to allow for those with pre-existing ideas to work on them and attract teammates to them. It is the Stakeholder's responsiblity to ensure that the project is explained, there is a clear project question, and that resources are available e.g. datasets.

## Themed Hackathons

A themed hackathon is one in which the projects are confined to a particular problem: such as digital humanities or community engagement. Themed hackathons are able to attract subject matter experts (something that open-ended hackathons are not good at), and projects typically revolve around problems that the subject matter experts bring to the table.

When themed hackathons are also technology hackathons, there is a common problem: Subject matter experts can readily identify problems in their field but cannot always turn those problems into workable technology projects. Other participants may be ready to apply their skills but not know anything about the hackathon’s theme. Bridging that gap requires careful moderation and support from Mentors.

What often results is a division of the room into three groups:

1. Subject matter experts and other participants successfully working together.
2. Subject matter experts working with other subject matter experts on problem investigation but not implementation.
3. Other participants struggling to find something relevant to work on / implementing a solution of minimal value to solving the theme’s actual problems.

'#1 is great. #2 is fine if the group is happy. But #3 is bad: participants without subject matter guidance will feel lost. To avoid this, Mentors will be asked to check-in with participants and assign them to workable projects until everyone is onboarded to a project.

Work with the subject matter experts at the beginning of the event to turn their problems into projects. See the section Cultivating Good Projects above to ensure there is a coherent question, that the necessary resources exist (e.g. datasets), and that the skills needed for the project match the skills expected to be brought by other participants (and in sufficient quantity).

Additionally, a subject matter expert may propose many ideas but she can only effectively participate in a single project during the event, so ensure that there is at least one subject matter expert + workable project for about every five non-expert participants.

## Placing Newcomers into New Projects

Onboarding participants onto existing projects can be very difficult. It is one of the hardest parts of hacking. Mentors should look for ideas for new projects that are especially easy for participants to get started with if they can’t join an existing project.

Having project ideas ready is especially important as we do not know how many participants will bring projects! And always be open to project ideas from participants. A project of one, meaning someone working alone, is okay too!

## Other Tips

Do not allow anyone to pitch an idea that they will not be working on at the event, unless there really are not enough ideas to go around. Otherwise, this is a waste of everyone’s valuable time.

Once hacking has begun, do not interrupt the hackers except to ensure that the hacking is going smoothly, to check that everyone has something to do, and to keep people on the overall schedule. 

## Training

A successful hackathon might be just hacking, just training, or both hacking and training.

As we expect a significant number of newcomers, having training workshops is a great way to give them something to do that they will be more comfortable with than diving into hacking. 

We run 12 weekly courses to introduce participants to a particular technical skill useful for the hackathon. 

Courses should be interactive as much as possible, with Mentors available to answer questions over Helpdesk and Forum. For Course syllabi and schedule see below.

## Sponsorship

For large events like this, we need sponsors to help us cover the costs. At the moment we are $25k short of being able to admit all 19,951 pre-registrants.

Sponsors will give something — cash, prizes, t-shirts — with the expectation that they get something out of their support for your event. They might be recruiting/hiring and are looking to scout out our attendees, or they might be marketing a product that they want to promote.

We will decide on a case-by-case basis what we are willing to give sponsors in return for their support. We will certainly thank our sponsors, by name, during your opening and closing session, and will probably tweet/etc. our thanks too. 

Beyond that, if they have a great female speaker we may give them a time at a podium to speak to our attendees? Or a page in the online forum to show off their stuff? We have to strike the right balance between bringing in enough sponsorships with not interfering with the goals of the event.

We are making some personal and company options for fundraising and will be sharing with the community in the coming weeks.

## Code of conduct

Technology events have a history of not always being welcoming to women and minorities. We need to change that. You can be a part of that change by adopting a code of conduct for the event. A code of conduct is not just about enforcing rules. It sets community norms and sends a signal to would-be participants that you are trying to create a welcoming environment. And, of course, if there is a problem at your event having a code of conduct ahead of time will help you resolve the issue.

We have adopted the MLH Code of Conduct, please review it.

[VOLUNTEER NEEDED] Make 1MWTT Code of Conduct, check out Tech Lady Hackathon + Training Day’s code of conduct. Also read the Hopper Conference Diversity Guide’s section on this.

## Happy hours

A pre-event happy hour the night before helps participants to get to know each other in a relaxing setting. A post-event happy hour the evening after the hackathon wraps up gives participants a chance to socialize now that they know each other.

[VOLUNTEERS NEEDED] Schedule and hold virtual Happy hours on Zoom: up to 100 participants, put people in 25 Break Out Rooms (4 person each) if possible

## Communication Channels

Official communications are only through the @1millionwomentotech Memberportals and Discord:

To get access please join via either:
- DIY (free - donation based): https://memberportal.1millionwomentotech.com/diy
- Fund Yourself Fund Others (paid): https://memberportal.1millionwomentotech.com/fund-yourself-fund-others

A social media channels: use hashtag on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook #1millionwomentotech #SummerOfCode
A code repository: https://github.com/1millionwomentotech/toolkitten/summerofcode
A forum: https://1millionwomentotech.com/summerofcode (coming)
   Name
   Discord username
   Job title
   Are they new to hackathons?
   What kind of hacker are they? Examples: Developer. Designer. Data Scientist. Domain Expert. Government Staff. Communicator. Project Manager. Advocate.
   What are they interested in hacking on? (free form question)
   Which hackathons and courses are they interested in?
   How they heard about the event
   Special needs/requests

## Project Pitches

Anyone who has brought a project to work on should then introduce the project to everyone. This is sometimes called “project pitches.” Keep each pitch short: the leader’s name and affiliation, a problem statement, the solution, and the skills/help needed. Project leaders tend to talk for as long as they can, so you may need to cut them off after one minute to be respectful of the audience’s time. Encourage leaders to think of this not as recruiting but as boasting how awesome their day is going to be.

## During the day

Have Mentors managing the Discord channel. Go around to check that every project is going smoothly. See if anyone needs anything or can’t find something to work on. Keep people on the overall schedule. Alert everyone when it is time for lunch and one hour before the wrap-up session. Leading up to wrap-up, make sure each project is prepared to explain what they did. Get them to record their progress on the forums.


## Wrap-up

The wrap-up session gives everyone a chance to hear what everyone else worked on during the day. For a small group, ask volunteers to report what they accomplished or what they learned (especially for workshop participants). Give folks rounds of applause.

Keep each project to 1 minute, and if they are going to show something on the projector make sure it is ready before the wrap-up session begins.

## Schedule

Opening: Saturday 14th of July, 2018. During the 5th Annual Oxford Inspires Conference we will kick off the Summer of Code at 9:00am via Live Streaming from the Nelson Mandela Theatre inside the Saïd Business School, University of Oxford, Oxford, OX1 1HP.

We hope the keep the weekly cadence always the same, so we can learn week-on-week and repeat what worked, and improve on what hasn't.

All times are British Standard Time (BST)


Credit: This guide is based on https://hackathon.guide/

Commit message:

add become a mentor #HOWTO update code-review.md and hackathon.md

howto/hackathon.md, after:

# 1 Million Women To Tech (1MWTT)

## Hackathon #HOWTO

TABLE OF CONTENTS
===========
<!--ts-->
   * [1 Million Women To Tech (1MWTT)](#1-million-women-to-tech-1mwtt)
      * [Hackathon #HOWTO](#hackathon-howto)
   * [TABLE OF CONTENTS](#table-of-contents)
      * [What is a hackathon?](#what-is-a-hackathon)
      * [Positive energy](#positive-energy)
      * [Strengthen the community that the hackathon is for](#strengthen-the-community-that-the-hackathon-is-for)
      * [Welcoming newcomers](#welcoming-newcomers)
      * [Hacking](#hacking)
      * [Cultivating Good Projects](#cultivating-good-projects)
      * [Open Ended Hackathons](#open-ended-hackathons)
      * [Themed Hackathons](#themed-hackathons)
      * [Placing Newcomers into New Projects](#placing-newcomers-into-new-projects)
      * [Other Tips](#other-tips)
      * [Training](#training)
      * [Sponsorship](#sponsorship)
      * [Code of conduct](#code-of-conduct)
      * [Happy hours](#happy-hours)
      * [Communication Channels](#communication-channels)
      * [Project Pitches](#project-pitches)
      * [During the day](#during-the-day)
      * [Wrap-up](#wrap-up)
      * [Schedule](#schedule)

<!-- Added by: ilonabudapesti, at:  -->

<!--te-->

## What is a hackathon?

We define "hackathon" very broadly:

Hacking is creative problem solving. (It does not have to involve technology.)
A hackathon is any event of any duration where people come together to solve problems. Most hackathons I’ve run also have a parallel track for workshops.
Participants typically form groups of about 2-6 individuals, take out their laptops (if the event is technology themed), and dive into problems. Training workshops are a great parallel track especially for newcomers but also for all participants.

## Positive energy

Hackathons have gotten a bad rap because of some that have an unhealthy, competitive structure, and for setting unrealistic expectations. Don’t participate in hackathon with that mindset and you’ll be on the right track. Here are the goals to keep in mind:

## Strengthen the community that the hackathon is for

Be welcoming to newcomers to the community.
Provide an opportunity for participants to learn something new.
Provide a space and a time for participants to make headway on problems they are interested in.
Don’t expect to have actually solved a problem by the end of the hackathon. Real life problems are hard! Think of the hackathon as a pit-stop on a long journey to solve problems or as a training session to prepare participants for solving problems.

Since you’re not going to solve a problem, don’t put unrealistic (and unhealthy) pressure on your participants. Don’t stay up all night, don’t pump yourself with caffeine, and don’t make winners and losers. Just don’t. Participants should come energized and be greeted with positive energy.

## Welcoming newcomers

The hardest thing about running a successful hackathon is being welcoming to newcomers and helping them get involved in an activity.

Newcomers often suffer from “imposter syndrome”, the feeling that they don’t belong because they don’t have skills, aren’t smart enough, etc. They’re wrong, of course, but until they feel like they belong they will not be able to have a fulfilling experience. It is the hackathon organizers', the mentors' and the more experienced participants' job to help them realize they have something to contribute.

First time hackathon participants are often overwhelmed when it comes time to finding a project to work on. They may not yet know how to relate their own skills to the sorts of projects being worked on. Knowing how to be useful is a skill in itself. You will need to guide them to a project and through a process for them to realize how they can contribute. If you have too many lost participants and not enough help in getting them started on a project, they will leave — let's try to avoid that.

Mentors must make sure that everyone has something to do. One way to do this is to have a list of project leaders ahead of time: people you know are coming with particular projects that you can guide other participants to. And you can work to make sure your hacking projects are ready to accept newcomers. We also hold non-project activities — courses, described below — which are easier for newcomers to join.

[VOLUNTEER NEEDED] We could also consider pairing newcomers with mentors.

[VOLUNTEER NEEDED] We are planning to hold a pre-event session just for newcomers, as Wikimedia recently did.

## Hacking

The hacking track is for participants to dive into problems. Often groups of 2-6 individuals form around a project, such as building a new data visualization, writing a document, or collaboratively investigating a problem. Participants take out their laptops, connect to power and wifi, join on a video conference and get working.

Hacking begins with project introductions. Participants that bring projects to the event have an opportunity to briefly (1 minute max) explain what they are working on at the very start of the event so that other participants can join that project. At the end of the event, a wrap-up session gives each project a chance to demonstrate some accomplishments.

## Cultivating Good Projects

Not every project makes a good hackathon project. It is extremely important to maximize the following qualities in the projects at your event:

- [ ] Clearly articulated. Projects should have a clear question or problem they are trying to solve plus a reasonably specific proposed solution.
- [ ] Attainable. Most projects will accomplish about 25% of what they think they can accomplish in the limited time they have. Manage each project’s goals so participants are able to feel accomplished at the end of the session, not interrupted.
- [ ] Easy to onboard newcomers. Projects should have ready-to-go tasks for newcomers with a variety of skills and at a variety of skill levels. For coding projects, these tasks can’t require an intimate understanding of the code base, and make sure the build environment can be spun up in less than 20 minutes. Make a list of tasks or create github issues ahead of time!
- [ ] Led by a stakeholder. A stakeholder (or “subject matter expert”) guides a project to real-world relevance. Projects without a stakeholder can “solve” a problem that doesn’t exist. Ideally the leader (or one of the leaders) is a stakeholder, or a good proxy for a stakeholder. I strongly recommend reviewing Laurenellen McCann’s Build With, Not For series on involving stakeholders in all civic tech work. Additionally, it is never enough for a project leader to just be an ideas person. Beware when the leader is a stakeholder but can’t foresee how he or she might be implementing along with the rest of the team.
- [ ] Organized. For projects with four or more members, especially newcomers, the project leader’s role should be to coordinate, ensuring each team member has something to work on and helping to welcome new team members.

Treat these bullets like a checklist. Projects that think about themselves in terms of these qualities tend to be happier and more productive.

If you know what projects are going to be worked on at the event, the earlier you can get those projects thinking about this the better. Meet with project leads and talk about these components of their project ahead of time if possible. As a Mentor, having this information about projects can also help you route participants to projects they may want to work on.

A great resource to read is the Google Summer of Code Guide on **Defining a Project (Ideas List)** https://google.github.io/gsocguides/mentor/defining-a-project-ideas-list

## Open Ended Hackathons

Each hackathon will have an open ended category to allow for those with pre-existing ideas to work on them and attract teammates to them. It is the Stakeholder's responsiblity to ensure that the project is explained, there is a clear project question, and that resources are available e.g. datasets.

## Themed Hackathons

A themed hackathon is one in which the projects are confined to a particular problem: such as digital humanities or community engagement. Themed hackathons are able to attract subject matter experts (something that open-ended hackathons are not good at), and projects typically revolve around problems that the subject matter experts bring to the table.

When themed hackathons are also technology hackathons, there is a common problem: Subject matter experts can readily identify problems in their field but cannot always turn those problems into workable technology projects. Other participants may be ready to apply their skills but not know anything about the hackathon’s theme. Bridging that gap requires careful moderation and support from Mentors.

What often results is a division of the room into three groups:

1. Subject matter experts and other participants successfully working together.
2. Subject matter experts working with other subject matter experts on problem investigation but not implementation.
3. Other participants struggling to find something relevant to work on / implementing a solution of minimal value to solving the theme’s actual problems.

'#1 is great. #2 is fine if the group is happy. But #3 is bad: participants without subject matter guidance will feel lost. To avoid this, Mentors will be asked to check-in with participants and assign them to workable projects until everyone is onboarded to a project.

Work with the subject matter experts at the beginning of the event to turn their problems into projects. See the section Cultivating Good Projects above to ensure there is a coherent question, that the necessary resources exist (e.g. datasets), and that the skills needed for the project match the skills expected to be brought by other participants (and in sufficient quantity).

Additionally, a subject matter expert may propose many ideas but she can only effectively participate in a single project during the event, so ensure that there is at least one subject matter expert + workable project for about every five non-expert participants.

## Placing Newcomers into New Projects

Onboarding participants onto existing projects can be very difficult. It is one of the hardest parts of hacking. Mentors should look for ideas for new projects that are especially easy for participants to get started with if they can’t join an existing project.

Having project ideas ready is especially important as we do not know how many participants will bring projects! And always be open to project ideas from participants. A project of one, meaning someone working alone, is okay too!

## Other Tips

Do not allow anyone to pitch an idea that they will not be working on at the event, unless there really are not enough ideas to go around. Otherwise, this is a waste of everyone’s valuable time.

Once hacking has begun, do not interrupt the hackers except to ensure that the hacking is going smoothly, to check that everyone has something to do, and to keep people on the overall schedule. 

## Training

A successful hackathon might be just hacking, just training, or both hacking and training.

As we expect a significant number of newcomers, having training workshops is a great way to give them something to do that they will be more comfortable with than diving into hacking. 

We run 12 weekly courses to introduce participants to a particular technical skill useful for the hackathon. 

Courses should be interactive as much as possible, with Mentors available to answer questions over Helpdesk and Forum. For Course syllabi and schedule see below.

## Sponsorship

For large events like this, we need sponsors to help us cover the costs. At the moment we are $25k short of being able to admit all 19,951 pre-registrants.

Sponsors will give something — cash, prizes, t-shirts — with the expectation that they get something out of their support for your event. They might be recruiting/hiring and are looking to scout out our attendees, or they might be marketing a product that they want to promote.

We will decide on a case-by-case basis what we are willing to give sponsors in return for their support. We will certainly thank our sponsors, by name, during your opening and closing session, and will probably tweet/etc. our thanks too. 

Beyond that, if they have a great female speaker we may give them a time at a podium to speak to our attendees? Or a page in the online forum to show off their stuff? We have to strike the right balance between bringing in enough sponsorships with not interfering with the goals of the event.

We are making some personal and company options for fundraising and will be sharing with the community in the coming weeks.

## Code of conduct

Technology events have a history of not always being welcoming to women and minorities. We need to change that. You can be a part of that change by adopting a code of conduct for the event. A code of conduct is not just about enforcing rules. It sets community norms and sends a signal to would-be participants that you are trying to create a welcoming environment. And, of course, if there is a problem at your event having a code of conduct ahead of time will help you resolve the issue.

We have adopted the MLH Code of Conduct, please review it.

[VOLUNTEER NEEDED] Make 1MWTT Code of Conduct, check out Tech Lady Hackathon + Training Day’s code of conduct. Also read the Hopper Conference Diversity Guide’s section on this.

## Happy hours

A pre-event happy hour the night before helps participants to get to know each other in a relaxing setting. A post-event happy hour the evening after the hackathon wraps up gives participants a chance to socialize now that they know each other.

[VOLUNTEERS NEEDED] Schedule and hold virtual Happy hours on Zoom: up to 100 participants, put people in 25 Break Out Rooms (4 person each) if possible

## Communication Channels

Official communications are only through the @1millionwomentotech Memberportals and Discord:

To get access please join via either:
- DIY (free - donation based): https://memberportal.1millionwomentotech.com/diy
- Fund Yourself Fund Others (paid): https://memberportal.1millionwomentotech.com/fund-yourself-fund-others

A social media channels: use hashtag on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook #1millionwomentotech #SummerOfCode
A code repository: https://github.com/1millionwomentotech/toolkitten/summerofcode
A forum: https://1millionwomentotech.com/summerofcode (coming)
   Name
   Discord username
   Job title
   Are they new to hackathons?
   What kind of hacker are they? Examples: Developer. Designer. Data Scientist. Domain Expert. Government Staff. Communicator. Project Manager. Advocate.
   What are they interested in hacking on? (free form question)
   Which hackathons and courses are they interested in?
   How they heard about the event
   Special needs/requests

## Project Pitches

Anyone who has brought a project to work on should then introduce the project to everyone. This is sometimes called “project pitches.” Keep each pitch short: the leader’s name and affiliation, a problem statement, the solution, and the skills/help needed. Project leaders tend to talk for as long as they can, so you may need to cut them off after one minute to be respectful of the audience’s time. Encourage leaders to think of this not as recruiting but as boasting how awesome their day is going to be.

## During the day

Have Mentors managing the Discord channel. Go around to check that every project is going smoothly. See if anyone needs anything or can’t find something to work on. Keep people on the overall schedule. Alert everyone when it is time for lunch and one hour before the wrap-up session. Leading up to wrap-up, make sure each project is prepared to explain what they did. Get them to record their progress on the forums.


## Wrap-up

The wrap-up session gives everyone a chance to hear what everyone else worked on during the day. For a small group, ask volunteers to report what they accomplished or what they learned (especially for workshop participants). Give folks rounds of applause.

Keep each project to 1 minute, and if they are going to show something on the projector make sure it is ready before the wrap-up session begins.

## Schedule

Opening: Saturday 14th of July, 2018. During the 5th Annual Oxford Inspires Conference we will kick off the Summer of Code at 9:00am via Live Streaming from the Nelson Mandela Theatre inside the Saïd Business School, University of Oxford, Oxford, OX1 1HP.

We hope the keep the weekly cadence always the same, so we can learn week-on-week and repeat what worked, and improve on what hasn't.

All times are British Standard Time (BST)


Credit: This guide is based on https://hackathon.guide/
